## Gas (mana) Optimization Report by K42

### Possible Optimization in Auction.sol
Scope = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-stader/blob/main/contracts/Auction.sol

Possible Optimization = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-stader/blob/main/contracts/Auction.sol#LL55C6-L57C10
-- Currently the ``createLot`` function checks whether the ``transferFrom`` function of the ERC20 token returns true. However, this is unnecessary because ``transferFrom`` will automatically revert if it fails, therefore you can change ``if (!IERC20(staderConfig.getStaderToken()).transferFrom(msg.sender, address(this), _sdAmount)) {
    revert SDTransferFailed();
}`` To ``IERC20(staderConfig.getStaderToken()).transferFrom(msg.sender, address(this), _sdAmount);`` this will save you some gas. 

- Estimated gas saved = 5,000 to 10,000 gas.

### Possible Optimization in PermissionedNodeRegistry.sol
Scope = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-stader/blob/main/contracts/PermissionedNodeRegistry.sol
Possible Optimization = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-stader/blob/main/contracts/PermissionedNodeRegistry.sol#LL67C1-L68C52
-- The ``UtilLib.checkNonZeroAddress()`` function is used multiple times to check if an address is not zero. However, in some cases, this check might be redundant. For example, in the ``initialize()`` function, the ``_admin`` and ``_staderConfig`` addresses are checked with ``UtilLib.checkNonZeroAddress()``. But these addresses are also used to call functions or assign values, which would fail anyway if the addresses were zero. Removing these redundant checks could save gas, remove ``UtilLib.checkNonZeroAddress(_admin);
`` and ``UtilLib.checkNonZeroAddress(_staderConfig);`` to save gas. 

- Estimated gas saved = Successful func call saves around 400 gas by removing these checks, unsuccessful func calls removing these checks saves around 20,000 gas. 

### Possible Optimizations in PermissionedPool.sol
Scope = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-stader/blob/main/contracts/PermissionedPool.sol
Possible Optimization 1 = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-stader/blob/main/contracts/PermissionedPool.sol#LL41C1-L42C52
-- Similar to previous optimization, the ``UtilLib.checkNonZeroAddress()`` function is used multiple times to check if an address is not zero. However, in some cases, this check might be redundant. For example, in the ``initialize()`` function, the ``_admin`` and ``_staderConfig`` addresses are checked with ``UtilLib.checkNonZeroAddress()``. But these addresses are also used to call functions or assign values, which would fail anyway if the addresses were zero. Removing these redundant checks could save gas, do this by removing ``UtilLib.checkNonZeroAddress(_admin);``
    and ``UtilLib.checkNonZeroAddress(_staderConfig);`` change to ``require(_admin != address(0), "Admin address cannot be zero");`` and ``require(_staderConfig != address(0), "StaderConfig address cannot be zero");`` to be sure of optimized checks. 

- Estimated gas saved = 21,000 gas. 

--
### Possible Optimization in PoolUtils.sol
Scope =  https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-stader/blob/main/contracts/PoolUtils.sol
Possible Optimization = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-stader/blob/main/contracts/PoolUtils.sol#LL26C1-L27C52
-- Similar to the previous optimizations the ``UtilLib.checkNonZeroAddress()`` function is used multiple times to check if an address is not zero. However, these checks are redundant in the ``initialize()`` function, the ``_admin`` and ``_staderConfig`` addresses are checked with ``UtilLib.checkNonZeroAddress()``. But these addresses are also used to call functions or assign values, which would fail anyway if the addresses were zero. Removing these redundant checks could save gas, therefore remove ``UtilLib.checkNonZeroAddress(_admin);`` and ``UtilLib.checkNonZeroAddress(_staderConfig);`` to save some gas. 

- Estimated gas saved = Up to 10,000 gas saved. 

### Possible Optimization in StaderOracle.sol
Scope = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-stader/blob/main/contracts/StaderOracle.sol
Possible Optimization = https://github.com/code-423n4/2023-06-stader/blob/main/contracts/StaderOracle.sol#LL115C1-L123C10
-- In the ``submitExchangeRateData`` function, there are multiple revert conditions that are checked one after the other. These conditions could be combined using logical OR (||) to take advantage of short-circuit evaluation. If the first condition is met, the rest won't be evaluated, saving gas. Do this like by replacing ``        if (isPORFeedBasedERData) {
            revert InvalidERDataSource();
        }
        if (_exchangeRate.reportingBlockNumber >= block.number) {
            revert ReportingFutureBlockData();
        }
        if (_exchangeRate.reportingBlockNumber % updateFrequencyMap[ETHX_ER_UF] > 0) {
            revert InvalidReportingBlock();
        }`` with ``require(
    !isPORFeedBasedERData || 
    _exchangeRate.reportingBlockNumber < block.number || 
    _exchangeRate.reportingBlockNumber % updateFrequencyMap[ETHX_ER_UF] == 0, 
    "InvalidERDataSource or ReportingFutureBlockData or InvalidReportingBlock"
);``
- Estimated gas saved = Short-circuit evaluation can often save a significant amount of gas when conditions are frequently met early in the logical expression. This optimization could potentially save a few hundred gas per transaction, but the exact amount would need to be benchmarked.